Topology documentation: add baseline and custom demo + docs (#8508)
patternfly/patternfly-react: packages/react-topology/src/components/TopologyView/examples/Topology.md

---
id: Topology view

> section: extensions

Reviewer: Can you import any of the propComponents to build any relevant prop tables at the bottom of these docs? And if you add `cssPrefix: pf-topology` as a line here, it might add the CSS variables used by topology to the bottom of our docs to more closely mirror the other component docs

Reviewer: I guess for propComponents, you could use all or most of the most important components you're importing from the topology package in your examples.

Reviewer 2: It's not pulling in the CSS or the props correctly. Some of the components get some of their props but just a few.
I'd like to defer this to another update once we get it working correctly

---

Note: Topology lives in its own package at [`@patternfly/react-topology`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/react-topology)

## Basic Usage

To use React Topology out-of-the-box, you will first need to transform your back-end data into a [Model](https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly-react/blob/main/packages/react-topology/src/types.ts#L16-L20). These model objects contain the information needed to display the nodes and edges. Each node and edge has a set of properties used by PF Topology as well as a data field which can be used to customize the nodes and edges by the application.

import {
ColaLayout,
DefaultEdge,
DefaultGroup,
DefaultNode,
EdgeStyle,
GraphComponent,
ModelKind,
NodeShape,
NodeStatus,
SELECTION_EVENT,
Visualization,
VisualizationProvider,
VisualizationSurface
} from '@patternfly/react-topology';

import './topology-example.css';
import Icon1 from '@patternfly/react-icons/dist/esm/icons/regions-icon';
import Icon2 from '@patternfly/react-icons/dist/esm/icons/folder-open-icon';

## Examples

### Baseline Topology

> 1. Declare a controller, which can be initialized via the `useVisualizationController()` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a new Controller which can be done using the default `Visualization` class.
```

1. The `fromModel` method must be called on the controller to create the nodes. `fromModel` will take your data model as a parameter. Your data model should include a `graph` object, on which you will need to set `id` , `type` and `layout`.

> 

Reviewer 2: Add info about adding the `VisualizationProvider` which is a useful context provider to allow access to the created Controller and is required when using the `VisualizationSurface` component.

> 1. Create your topology view component, you can use `TopologyView` to Wrap `<VisualizationSurface>` which can accept `state` as a parameter. The state is application specific. It can be any data the application wants to store/retrieve from the controller. Adding state to the surface allows hooks to update when state changes. The state is useful to keep graph state such as selected elements.

Reviewer 2: I think we should only mention the `VisualizationSurface` here. Let's leave the `TopologyView` component for later.

1. Use a controller to wrap your topology view component. In the example below, this is done via the `VisualizationProvider` which consumes the `Controller` via context.

It is important to note that three `register` methods are accessed by the controller.

The following two must be declared explicitly:

- `registerLayoutFactory`: This method sets the layout of your topology view (e.g. Force, Dagre, Cola, etc.). You can use `defaultLayoutFactory` as a parameter if your application supports all layouts. You can also update `defaultLayout` to a custom implementation if you only want to support a subset of the available layout options.

- `registerComponentFactory`: This method lets you customize the components in your topology view (e.g. nodes, groups, and edges). You can use `defaultComponentFactory` as a parameter.

The register method below is initialized in `Visualization.ts`, therefore it doesn't need to be declared unless you want to support a custom implementation which modifies the types.

> - `registerElementFactory`: This method sets the types of the elements being used (e.g. graphs, nodes, edges). `defaultElementFactory` uses types from `ModelKind` and is exported in `index.ts`.

Reviewer 2: The registration info should come direct after the first bullet `Create a controller...`

```ts file='./TopologyBaselineDemo.tsx'
```

### Custom Topology

To create a demo with custom node styling, you will need to create a custom node component, which your `customComponentFactory` will return.

To do this, you will need:

> 1. A `CustomNodeProps` interface with an `element` of type `Node`.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need to call out `CustomNodeProps`

    - `registerComponentFactory`: This method lets you customize the components in your topology view (e.g. nodes, groups, and edges). You can use `defaultComponentFactory` as a parameter.

  The register method below is initialized in `Visualization.ts`. It doesn't need to be declared unless you support a custom implementation which modifies the types.

    - `registerElementFactory`: This method sets the types of the elements being used (e.g. graphs, nodes, edges). `defaultElementFactory` uses types from `ModelKind` and is exported in `index.ts`.

2. The `fromModel` method must be called on the controller to create the nodes. `fromModel` will take your data model as a parameter. Your data model should include a `graph` object, on which you will need to set `id` , `type` and `layout`.

3. To create your topology view component, add a `VisualizationProvider`, which is a useful context provider. It allows access to the created Controller and is required when using the `VisualizationSurface` component.

> 4. Use `VizualizationProvider` to wrap `VizualizationSurface` which can accept `state` as a parameter. The state is application specific. It can be any data the application wants to store/retrieve from the controller. Adding state to the surface allows hooks to update when state changes. The state is useful to keep graph state such as selected elements.

Reviewer 2: You can use the provided `VisualizationSurface` to provide the SVG component required for the topology components. The VisualizationSurface can take a state parameter that will allow you to pass your state settings along to the Controller.

> 5. Use a controller to wrap your topology view component. In the example below, this is done via the `VisualizationProvider` which consumes the `Controller` via context.

Reviewer 2: remove this
